Locations: VA - McLean, United States of America, McLean, VirginiaPrincipal Data Analyst


At Capital One, data is at the center of everything we do. When we launched as a startup we disrupted the credit card industry by individually personalizing every credit card offer using statistical modeling and the relational database, cutting edge technology in 1988! Fast-forward a few years, and this little innovation and our passion for data has skyrocketed us to a Fortune 200 company and a leader in the world of data-driven decision-making.


As a Data Analyst at Capital One you will leverage analytic and technical skills to innovate, build, and maintain well-managed data solutions and capabilities to tackle business problems.


On any given day you will be challenged on three types of work – Innovation, Business Intelligence and Data Management:


Innovation


 Use Open Source/Digital technologies to mine complex, voluminous, and different varieties of data sources and platforms 
 Build well-managed data solutions, tools, and capabilities to enable self-service frameworks for data consumers 
 Demonstrate ability to explore and quickly grasp new technologies to progress varied initiatives 


Business Intelligence


 Partner with the business to provide consultancy and translate the business needs to design and develop tools, techniques, metrics, and dashboards for insights and data visualization 
 Drive analysis that provides meaningful insights on business strategies 


Data Management


 Drive an understanding and adherence to the principles of data quality management including metadata, lineage, and business definitions 
 Work collaboratively with appropriate Tech teams to manage security mechanisms and data access governance 
 Build and execute tools to monitor and report on data quality 


Our ideal candidate will have:


 Degree specialized in a Science, Technology, Engineering, Mathematics discipline 
 Scripting experience in (Python, R, Spark, and SQL) 
 Strong desire and experience with data in various forms (data warehouses/SQL, unstructured data) 
 Experience utilizing and developing within AWS services 


Basic Qualifications:


 Bachelor’s Degree plus at least 5 years of experience in data analytics, or Master’s Degree plus at least 3 years in data analytics, or PhD 
 At least 3 years of experience in at least one scripting language 
 At least 1 year of experience utilizing a business intelligence visualization tool 
 At least 3 years of experience in querying and analyzing and working with data languages and platforms 


Preferred Qualifications:


 Master’s Degree in a Science, Technology, Engineering, Mathematics discipline 
 At least 4 years of experience coding in Python, R, Spark, or SQL 
 At least 4 years of experience working within process management and improvement methodologies – Agile, Lean, Six Sigma, etc. 
 At least 2 years of experience utilizing and developing within AWS services 
 At least 2 years of experience delivering Data Governance and Data Quality Management concepts and practices within the financial services industry 


 Capital One will consider sponsoring a new qualified applicant for employment authorization for this position. 


Capital One offers a comprehensive, competitive, and inclusive set of health, financial and other benefits that support your total well-being. Learn more at the Capital One Careers website . Eligibility varies based on full or part-time status, exempt or non-exempt status, and management level.


No agencies please. Capital One is an equal opportunity employer committed to diversity and inclusion in the workplace. All qualified applicants will receive consideration for employment without regard to sex (including pregnancy, childbirth or related medical conditions), race, color, age, national origin, religion, disability, genetic information, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender reassignment, citizenship, immigration status, protected veteran status, or any other basis prohibited under applicable federal, state or local law. Capital One promotes a drug-free workplace. Capital One will consider for employment qualified applicants with a criminal history in a manner consistent with the requirements of applicable laws regarding criminal background inquiries, including, to the extent applicable, Article 23-A of the New York Correction Law; San Francisco, California Police Code Article 49, Sections 4901-4920; New York City’s Fair Chance Act; Philadelphia’s Fair Criminal Records Screening Act; and other applicable federal, state, and local laws and regulations regarding criminal background inquiries.


If you have visited our website in search of information on employment opportunities or to apply for a position, and you require an accommodation, please contact Capital One Recruiting at 1-800-304-9102 or via email at RecruitingAccommodation@capitalone.com . All information you provide will be kept confidential and will be used only to the extent required to provide needed reasonable accommodations.


For technical support or questions about Capital One's recruiting process, please send an email to Careers@capitalone.com


Capital One does not provide, endorse nor guarantee and is not liable for third-party products, services, educational tools or other information available through this site.


Capital One Financial is made up of several different entities. Please note that any position posted in Canada is for Capital One Canada, any position posted in the United Kingdom is for Capital One Europe and any position posted in the Philippines is for Capital One Philippines Service Corp. (COPSSC).